---
title: How and why i build my (first) homepage
date: 2020-02-01
excerpt: this is an article about wich decisions and hurdles i took to build my first personal website and blog
---

# {{ title }}

## Why?

Approximately 1 year ago i discovered [dev.to](https://dev.to/) and i started reading many many posts from many great people. Currently i have like 100 unread posts from people i follow there, but i mostly read stuff that the weekly newsletter recommends to me. But while i was happily reading, i found out about this new thing, personal pages / blogs. Okay, i knew before that personal pages exist, but i didn't knew that there are so many, with so many helpfull articles. I still think dev.to is great, but i also think that personal pages are much greater. For this i have to thank [zach Leat](https://www.zachleat.com/) and the Indie Web, and yes, also his tool [11ty](https://11ty.dev/) and the [twitter account for 11ty](https://twitter.com/eleven_ty) that posts regulary new pages / blogs that are built using it. Also i started a while ago to sort out my Twitter feed, and sort of replace it, with developers i like, and through retweets and discussions i find daily new great developers to follow.

By reading all these great posts and tweets from all these great peoples out there, i wanted to become part of it. Reading posts like [these](https://www.sarasoueidan.com/desk/just-write/) also helped a lot.

## December 2019

So in december of 2019 I finally decided to really build my webpage, and share my thoughts with the world. Yeah i know, i was really quick with building my page.

So, the first thing i've done was buying a fancy domain name. I thought that would force me to finish the site quicker. I mean, at least i didin't dropped the project, like many others.

At second i decided how to host my application. I already knew i wanted to go full JAMStack and choose to go with ZEIT Now because i tested it a few months ago and liked it a bit more than Netlify, for know particular reason.

Then, because i didin't thaught about how to handle my E-Mail stuff and my domain provider doesn't provide an E-Mail service by default i needed to test some solutions for my "professional" E-Mail. I Ended up with ImprovMX for forwarding E-Mails to my private Gmail account and sending E-Mail from my private Gmail account. I also tested some solutions for sending E-Mails from a contact form, but in the end i choose to not have a contact form at all, because i don't think one is necessary for my blog.

Now i had a URL a webhoster / page deployer and a "professional" E-Mail, but i still needed to build my site (i know, really sad). At first i thought of using Vue for my site, like i did on a previus project, but i read a lot about SSGs, progressive enhancement and accessibility recently and choose to use an SSG (static site generator) for this sake. I also really liked the idea that my site is well usable without any JavaScript. But which SSG should i use? There are 1000s to choose from, alone on [staticgen.com](https://staticgen.com/).

So i startet to filter out many SSG's by setting some requirements. At first i decided that the SSG of my choice should work with Node.js, so i don't need to install another programming language. Fot that Hugo and Jekyll, two of the biggest and most loved players, dropped out.

Then i first looked at some SSGs for Vue, because, like i earlier wrote, I really like Vue. So i looked at the big three:

1. **Gridsome:**
   I think this one is on a good way, but at the time it looks like VuePress is better. Dropped it for not having i18n (internationalisation) support, which I did not implement anyway.
2. **VuePress:**
   The cool tool that is developed and used by the Vue core team, with really "important" i18n support (Okay, for documentation this can be truly important) which can easly be used for a markdown powered blog. I ended up not using it because it has some things/components that i wanted to change but couldn't.
3. **Nuxt:**
   Nuxt can probably do all i want, but i found it to be much more complex than the other solution, which i really didn't wanted.

It seemed that Vue maybe isn't the final choice for my blog, but there was a new really cool js framework/ccompiler in the block: Svelte. It even has a tool for SSR (Server Side Rendering) and static site generation called Sapper, but i didin't liked the structure and router from Sapper.

<!-- hhhhhh -->

Don't like Sapper but recently i heard of project named Svelte Site Generator (cool abbreviation for an SSG) which seems simpler, but i'm very happy with my decision.

Now i had enough of these damn frameworks (it's a joke, chill), and looked for some unopinionated not framework driven SSGs like Hugo and Jekyll are. I also really like that you can't see with that the final website is build.

**Metalsmith** looked really good to me and reminded me of Gulp, which i also really like, but it isn't regularly updated animore.

**11ty**, the on i finally choose, but it was a wild road. I found it throught a [talk](https://youtu.be/X3SrZuH00GQ) from Zach Leathermann other Social Media and the IndieWeb and thought it looked really cool and it seemed blazing fast. So I began testing/using it and it worked really well, and like Nunjucks as tmeplating engine, although you can use almost any available engine. The only thing that bugged me about 11ty was the lack of tooling for CSS and JS, and every solution I found used something like Webpack in parallel with 11ty, what i also don't like. I think everything shoult be done with "one" tool, two in parallel seem really unnatural to me.

At this point, after testing all these SSGs I was like: "fuck it, im gonna build my own SSG and give it a bad as name". I called it s17r (you know what i did there). Then I started programming it, with Node.js and the "right" amount of `node_modules`.

## January 2020

As i was building my thing, and it started to work really good in a relatively short time of programming, i sadly realised that i was building an SSG that was just had little difference to 11ty. But this didn't stop me, because there seemed to be still no proper way (for me) for bundling CSS and JS.

But the 11ty version 0.0.10 and this [tweet](https://twitter.com/jgarber/status/1214733173797609472) came out, and i had to realize that 11ty is, at least, now better the my unfinished project.

Im still thankful that i started building my own SSG because i learned a lot about Node.js, CLI developement and publishing / working with npm packages, which i hadn't done before.

postcss and js with js templates, new function `addWatchTarget`. [tweet](https://twitter.com/jgarber/status/1214733173797609472)

building building -> several redesigns

- typography, color, logo
- i18n yes or nah
- a11y -> yes!

## February 2020

lol logo

## the future

- bookmark bar

not that good at english writing but i hope this blog helps with it.
